---
title: "The Premium Effect of Elite Schools and their Affiliated Schools (in Chinese)"
collection: publications
category: journal_articles
permalink: /publications/2019-10-01-TPEESAS
excerpt: "This article explores The Premium Effect of Elite Schools and their Affiliated Schools. This article is the paper change from master thesis. I wrote the initial draft and my Master's Supervisor Huang almost rewrite it."
date: 2019-10-01
venue: 'Peking University Education Review'
#paperurl: 'https://yrx-china.github.io/files/journal_articles/20191001_The-Premium-Effect-of-Elite-Schools-and-their-Affiliated-Schools.pdf'
citation: 'Huang, B., Yun, R.(corresponding author), & Fan, W. (2019). &quot;The Premium Effect of Elite Schools and their Affiliated Schools：Enrollment Effect and Prestige Effect.&quot; <i>Peking University Education Review</i>. 17(04):138-159+188.'
---

**Abstract**：Elite primary and secondary schools running affiliated schools 
is usually encouraged and increasingly becoming an important instrument to pursuit equity of compulsory education in China. Based on the data of 1,849 residential districts in eight municipal districts of Nanjing in 2017, this study estimates the housing prices on both sides of the school district boundary by matched first-differenced estimation based on the spatial discontinuity design. The results show that the premium of being eligible to enroll in a municipal level key primary school is 19.7% and 3.6%, respectively.The premium is divided into two parts: the enrollment effect and the prestige effect. Parents pay more attention to the prestige of elite schools and the academic performance of their affiliated schools. There is a substitution relationship between these two effects. When the enrollment rate reaches a certain level, parents would no longer care about the school’s prestige. The increase in the number of affiliated schools leads the change of premium of school district housing appears to be a U-shape. When there is a big gap between the enrollment rate of an affiliated school and its home school, running affiliated schools will not suppress the premium of elite school districts, but boost it. Empirical results suggest that such education policy reform can not result in an actual education equity. The focus of future policy should effectively reduce the quality gap between elite schools and their affiliated ones rather than simply expand the coverage of elite schools. <br>
**Keywords**：school quality; house price; premium; Enrollment Effect