---
title: "Can Monetary Incentive Increase Teachers’Inter-school Exchange Intention (in Chinese)"
collection: publications
category: journal_articles
permalink: /publications/2019-06-01-CMIITIEI
excerpt: 'I am responsible for proofreading the text.'
date: 2019-06-01
venue: 'Journal of East China Normal University (Educational Sciences)'
#paperurl: "https://yrx-china.github.io/files/journal_articles/20190601_Can-Monetary-Incentive-Increase-Teachers’-Inter-school-Exchange-Intention.pdf"
citation: "Huang, B., Zhang Q., & Yun, R. (2019). &quot;Can Monetary Incentive 
Increase Teachers’Inter-school Exchange  Intention: A Survey Study of 278 
Schools in China.&quot; <i>Journal of East China Normal University 
(Educational Sciences)</i>. 37(06):94-108."
---

**Abstract**：Based on survey data from 278 schools in seven provinces in China,this paper,using binary  logistic regression and generalized ordered logistic regression,investigates the factors influencing the willingness of primary and secondary school teachers to participate in inter-schools exchange and their expectation level of subsidy. It also examines the actual effect of subsidy and housing benefits on the willingness of inter-schools exchange. It's found that the current inter-schools exchange of teachers is dominated by the same-level  exchanges of school types and locations,and the coverage of subsidies and housing benefits is relatively low,  while the expected amount of subsidy is about 30% of their salary,which means there is still a big gap. Subsidies and housing benefits can,to a certain extent,significantly enhance the teachers’ willingness of inter-schools exchange ,and there is a substitute relationship between subsidies and housing welfare. Teachers '  willingness to participate in ‘hard exchange’ is stronger than that of “soft exchange”. Transferring the personnel relationship of the downward-moving teachers to the targeted schools will significantly enhance their  willingness of inter-schools move again. Improved school environment and working conditions has a significant  positive impact on teachers' inter-schools exchange intention,but negative impact on teachers' expectation of  subsidies. Based on the findings,this paper puts forward some policy suggestions on promoting the intra-county balanced development of compulsory education,including promoting the reform of teachers' unified salary  standard,establishing a factor-based subsidy system,and deepening the reform of ‘Administration by Bureau, Recruitment by Schools’.<br>
**Keywords**：subsidies; primary and junior school teachers; inter-schools exchange; intention