---
title: "How Can Educational Development Help Invigorate the Country? (in Chinese)"
collection: publications
category: journal_articles
permalink: /publications/2023-10-28-HCEDHIC
excerpt: 'This article explores the importance of education quality for economic growth and the effect varies across different economies on different historical stages. This article is in collaboration with Huang. I wrote the initial draft and Huang rewrite it base my initial draft.'
date: 2023-10-28
venue: 'Educational Research'
#paperurl: 'https://yrx-china.github.io/files/journal_articles/20231028_How-Can-Educational-Development-Help-Invigorate-the-Country.pdf'
citation: 'Huang, B., & Yun, R. (2023). &quot;How Can Educational Development Help Invigorate the Country? ——An Empirical Analysis Based on Internationally Comparable Data on Cognitive Skills from 1960 to 2020.&quot; <i>Educational Research</i>. 44(10):125-136.'
---

**Abstract**：Education is an important support and strategic precursor for 
building a powerful country. The relationship between educational development and economic growth is essential for strengthening national capabilities.    This study uses regression analysis and internally comparable data on cognitive skills from 159 countries and regions from 1960 to 2020 to assess the impact of educational development on economic growth. The analysis finds that mean years of schooling (MYS) no longer significantly affect long-term economic growth. Conversely, educational quality had a significant effect on economic growth across all periods. In the 21st century, skill-biased technological progress has enabled high income economic entities to promote economic growth mainly by accumulating high-level human capital. In line with this, we observe that an increase in the proportion of highly skilled students can significantly promote economic growth during high income development. From the perspective of the economic value of education, this study reveals that the fundamental goal of education is to boost the substantive development of human skills. The "double improvement" of the overall skills of the population and the proportion of the highly skilled population through the systematic reform of education is crucial in promoting the construction of a powerful country in education in China. Consequently, we need to focus on improving students' overall skills, cultivating top-notch innovative talents, establishing a high-quality education system, increasing teachers' salaries, and building a value-added evaluation system for the entire educational process. Additionally, a tracking and monitoring system for the development of people's skills throughout the life course should be implemented. <br>
**Keywords**：educational quality; a powerful country in education; economic growth; cognitive skill; top-notch innovative talent