---
title: "How Does Education Promote Fairness in the Third Distribution? (in Chinese)"
collection: publications
category: journal_articles
permalink: /publications/2024-12-01-HDEPFTD
excerpt: "The idea of this article provided by me, which aims to study the 
non-economic value of education. The first author is responsible for the 
empirical part, the second and corresponding authors are responsible for the 
text, and I provide guidance."
date: 2024-12-01
venue: 'Education and Economy'
#paperurl: 'https://yrx-china.github.io/files/journal_articles/20241201_How-Does-Education-Promote-Fairness-in-the-Third-Distribution.pdf'
citation: 'Wang, X., Liu, C., & Yun, R. (2024). &quot;How Does Education 
Promote Fairness in the Third Distribution? An Empirical Exploration Based 
on the “Economic-Humanistic” Values of Education .&quot; <i>Education and Economy</i>. 40(06):25-36.'
---

**Abstract**：The Tenth Meeting of the Central Committee for Financial and Economic Affairs has incorporated the third  distribution into the foundational institutional arrangements to promote common prosperity among all people. Education is an  effective means to advance common prosperity. However, previous research has primarily focused on the role of education in the initial distribution and redistribution, paying less attention to its role in the third distribution. To address this research  gap, this paper, based on data from the China Family Panel Studies (CFPS), employs instrumental variable methods to  explore the unique role of education in enhancing individual donations and its underlying mechanisms. The study finds that  education significantly increases both the participation rate (10.1% )and the amount of donations (8.4% )by individuals.  The improvement in the participation rate is attributed to the synergistic effects of the dual values of education in “economic  -humanistic” terms, while the increase in donation amount relies on the “humanistic” value of education, with social  interaction playing a crucial role. The study highlights the pivotal role of education in promoting the third distribution,  emphasizing that its “humanistic” value is more significant than its “economic” value. Enhancing social interaction within  the educational process is crucial for fully realizing the “humanistic” potential of education.<br>
**Keywords**：common prosperity; third distribution; education; donation; social interaction