---
title: "The Effect of Education on Promoting Common Prosperity (in Chinese)"
collection: publications
category: journal_articles
permalink: /publications/2024-04-01-TEEPCP
excerpt: 'This article is in collaboration with He. I am mainly responsible for the data processing and regression'
date: 2024-04-01
venue: 'Education and Economy'
#paperurl: 'https://yrx-china.github.io/files/journal_articles/20240401_The-Effect-of-Education-on-Promoting-Common-Prosperity.pdf'
citation: 'He, P., Yun, R.(corresponding author), & Huang, B. (2024). &quot;The Effect of Education on Promoting Common Prosperity: Disucssion on the Present Situation of the Distribution Structure of Social Income.&quot; <i>Education and Economy</i>. 40(2):30-39.'
---

**Abstract**：Expanding the proportion of middle-income groups is an important means and necessary way to solidly promote common prosperity in our country. Education is a major measure to narrow the income gap of residents, adjust the structure of social income distribution, and realize common prosperity. The micro and macro data from 2012 to 2018 are used to analyze the current status of China's income distribution structure and the role of education in downsizing the low-income group and expanding the middle-income group. The results show that since the 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China,China's income distribution structure has been continuously optimized, and the middle-income group has continued to expand, but the low-income group still occupies a large proportion. The proportion of middle-income groups in Shanghai and Beijing has exceeded 50%, and the income distribution structure in other regions is in the transition stage from “pyramid” to “olive”. Education plays a role in optimizing social income distribution by significantly reducing the proportion of low-income groups and increasing the proportion of middle-income groups. The adjustment of the social income distribution structure by education is mainly realized through higher education, and the role of higher education in lowering and expanding is significantly higher than that of basic education. Compared with the expansion of education quantity, the improvement of education quality is more effective in improving the social income distribution structure. Therefore, we should given priority to education as the driving force to promote common prosperity;pay attention to the cultivation of talents in higher education,and promote the high-quality and balanced development of higher education; improve the quality of education and build a high-quality education system. <br>
**Keywords**：education;common prosperity; downsizing the low-income and expanding the middle-income; social income distribution structure